# Building and scaling Platforms and Platforms Culture at Startups

## Long Description

Platform engineering is just as crucial for startups as it is for bigger organizations like Twitter or Netflix, if not more, as it creates enabling technologies and culture for the various Engineering, Product Development, and Business use cases of organizations. Platform Engineering, done “suitably” right, can lead Companies to efficiently deliver high-quality, secure, compliant, robust, and reliable products to their customers. This talk proposes to share the lessons learned from setting up teams and building Platforms for Startups and Scaleups.

This talk proposes to share the lessons learned from setting up teams and building Platforms for Startups and Scaleups. The talk starts with how to imbibe Platforms philosophy in an Engineering org from the first Engineer, aligning platforms with the needs of the business, and staying adaptable while scaling. The talk follows up with strategies for developing platforms in constraints, adapting Platforms philosophy based on the constraints of time, knowledge, money, etc; decisions regarding suitable technologies and services, and iterating through feedback from customers and stakeholders, while supporting the rapid growth of the organization and the business. The talk discusses in detail the synonymity of Platform Engineering, DevOps, and SRE principles in practice and the silos created when Organizations dissect the practitioners of these principles in different teams. We discuss Open Sourcing Platforms within the Company to get contributions from Product, Design, and other teams. The talk also discusses the distribution of ownership of the Platforms. Toward the end, the talk presents a successful case study of Platform Engineering practices implemented successfully at 2 Startups. This talk is intended for Startup Founders, Engineering Leaders, Platform/DevOps/SRE Engineers, and anyone who shall benefit from getting a practical perspective on Platform Engineering. After the talk, the audience will take away a Framework for setting up a Culture of Platforms Engineering, and practical learnings and insights to build and scale platforms that can handle the demands of a growing user base, in a dynamic and fast-changing startup environment.


