# Building and scaling Platforms and SRE Culture at Startups

Platform and Site Reliability Engineering is just as crucial for startups as it is for bigger organizations like Twitter or Netflix, if not more, as it creates enabling technologies and culture for the various Engineering, Product Development, and Business use cases of organizations, and imbibes a culture of continuous feedback. SRE, done "suitably" right, can lead companies to efficiently deliver high-quality, secure, compliant, robust, and reliable products to their customers. This talk proposes to share the lessons learned from setting up teams and building Platforms and SRE culture for Startups and Scaleups.

The talk starts with how to imbibe the SRE philosophies in an Engineering org from the first Engineer, aligning platforms with the needs of the business, and staying adaptable while scaling. The talk follows up with strategies for developing SRE platforms in constraints, adapting the SRE philosophy based on the constraints of time, knowledge, money, etc; decisions regarding suitable technologies and services, and iterating through feedback from systems, customers and stakeholders, while supporting the rapid growth of the organization and the business. The talk discusses in detail the synonymity of Platform Engineering, DevOps, and SRE principles in practice and the silos created when Organizations dissect the practitioners of these principles in different teams. We discuss Open Sourcing SRE within the Company to get contributions from other internal teams. The talk also discusses the distribution of ownership of the SRE Platforms. Toward the end, the talk presents a successful case study of Site Reliability and Platform Engineering practices implemented successfully at 2 Startups. This talk is intended for Startup Founders, Engineering Leaders, Platform/DevOps/SRE Engineers, and anyone who shall benefit from getting a practical perspective on Site Reliability Engineering at Startups and Scaleups. The talk also aims at deep diving into why How Google or Netflix do SRE, is not a good place for startups to start with. After the talk, the audience will take away a Framework for setting up a Culture of Site Reliability Engineering, and practical learnings and insights to build and scale SRE teams and platforms that can handle the demands of a growing user base, in a dynamic and fast-changing startup environment.